## **Nanothermometry analysis pipeline**
Welcome! In this repository you will find the code we have developed to process the data presented in this [article](http://google.com). The analysis pipeline was designed to process multiple photoluminescence spectra generated by a new implementation of Anti-Stokes nanothermometry. The scripts presented here process hyperspectral images acquired with a custom-built confocal microscope (see our article for further information). Each hyperspectral image is composed of `NxN` photoluminescence (PL) spectra acquired at specific spatial positions of the sample, using a spectrometer with a fixed wavelength range. The analysis aims to estimate the photothermal coefficient of the NP under study, that is, how hot the NP can get when under continuous-wave illumination. Instead, if you know this parameter, you can estimate the initial temperature of the NP and use it as a nanothermometer!

Several experimental parameters are needed to run the code. Be aware you need to know the temperature of the sample at the beginning of the test (or the photothermal coefficient), PSF width, camera specs, size of the image. 

### The files
Here you will find 4 kind of files:
1. An **auxiliary** file which contains all the *small* functions needed to run the analysis. Filename: functions_for_photoluminescence.py
2. Stand-alone scripts that account for each **step** of the analysis pipeline. Filename: stepX_DESCRIPTION_OF_THE_STEP.py
3. The **main** script. You should execute this script to analyze the data. Filename: find_beta_or_Tzero.py
4. Definitions to **plot** some fancy graphics (matplotlib). Filename: for_confocal.mplstyle

### Organization
The analysis pipeline code is organized as follows:
* The **main** script calls all steps. The order can't be altered. Each step needs information that the previous one has created. Step 0, must be executed before Step 1, 1 before 2, and so on...
* Once you have run Step 0, several new files are created (processed data). So next time you run the main script won't be neccesary to run Step 0 again. For instance, you can continue only with Step 1 (or 1 and 2, or 1, 2 and 3, etc.)
* Although the filename of each step script is self-explanatory, here is a brief description of them:
  + Step 0 process the laser power monitor signal (optional), the first *fast* hyperspectral image (optional) and calculates the total irradiance
  + Step 1 process the *slow* hyperspectral image. This is the most imporante step: the `NxN` PL spectra are binned into `totalbins = 10` (just an example, you can change this number) to obtain a better signal-to-noise ratio. Also, irradiance for each bin is calculated
  + Step 2 uses the binned spectra to calculate the ratios betweeen the Anti-Stokes spectra. Fitting of this ratios yields the photothermal coefficient of the NP a.k.a., beta. One fit gives one beta. So multiple betas are obtained
  + Step 3 estimates a mean beta and calculates the temperature of the NP as a function of the incident irradiance
  + Step 4 is written to gather all saved data and to do some statistics. This step is optional, not critical
* Inside each script some comments may you find regarding functionality or what each variable represents. Also the name of the variables is self-explanatory

### Input parameters
The **main** script has several variables that determine the behavior of the code. These variables are passed to each step script. These variable are arguments for specific functions. Along with its value, inside a subfunction called `run_analysis` in the **main** script, you will find that each variable has a brief comment that explains its meaning. Examples of these variables are: `totalbins`, `image_size_px`, `camera_px_length`, etc...

### Outputs
The analysis pipeline creates a new folder called "processed_data". This folder contains several subfolders which in turn contains `.dat`, `.txt` (both ASCII encoded) and plots:
1. One folder for each hyperspectral image you have acquired. Data inside:
  * Calibration data (calculated irradiance, counts per second, raw spectra, plots)
  * Raw PL spectra (optional, set input as `plot_flag = True` in **main** script)
  * Binned PL spectra. NUmber of bins can be set through `totalbins` variable in the **main** script. This subfolder contains:
    - All binned PL spectra in a single file (all_bins.dat)
    - Wavelength array used (londa.dat)
    - Irradiance for each bin (bin_irradiance.dat)
    - Distribution of spectra considering its irradiance (bin_distro.dat)
    - Relevant plots
  * Normalized Stokes PL spectra (to check Stokes proportionality with incident irradiance)
  * Plots of the Anti-Stokes PL spectra
  * Ratios between different Anti-Stokes PL spectra (antistokes_quotient folder)
  * Sum of all spectra (spr folder). This was used to extract information related to the Surface Plasmon Resonance)
  * A folder named *matrix* were most valuable information is saved:
    - A matrix of photothermal coefficients (if beta was fitted)
    - A matrix of Tzero (if Tzero was fitted)
    - A matrix of goodess of the fit
    - A matrix for each variable error
    - A subfolder called temp_vs_irrad where NP's Temperature is calculated as a function of the incident Irradiance
2. A folder for all common plots (for fast comparison)
3. A folder that contains statistics about all hyperspectral images acquired (only created if multiple NPs are being analyzed, i.e. `single_NP_flag = False`, and step4 is executed)

#### Disclaimer
Some plots were adjusted to fit our requirements (axis limits, scale, colors, dpi). Modify them if you need. Defaults can be edited at for_confocal.mplstyle and other fields should be edited inside each step script.

#### Contact
If you find a bug, have a question or just want to make a comment, you can open a new issue or reach me anywhere on the web.
